Hello and welcome back students knowing or just get our feet wet.
What I'm going to do in this lecture is to log into the CLIA and just show you some very basic commands
that way you'll get some idea and you'll start feeling comfortable around the Linux interface.
If you're completely new to it.
So we are in the windowing environment right now.
I'm going to open a terminal and this is Sentosa by the way.
Santos or Redhat whatever you want to call it.
And currently we are the problem and just the fact that we like the dollar sign probably tells you that
sonand root user who is logged in right now.
OK.
So I suppose if I want to find out who I am I log in as maybe I have switched back and forth from the
root to some other user to log back to some other user and back to my cell and I caught last thought
of lost track of who are logged in as the command is very simple.
It's English word.
Who am I.
All together without any space.
It tells me I'm logged in as Larry and
suppose I lost track of where am I located.
You know in the directory tree.
Exactly where I'm located.
I'll do a present working directory.
P d it tells me I'm located in my home directory which is special Larry.
I want to find out a listing of files that I currently am I not own any files at all.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to create some file.
A very quick way to create some files which are empty check nothing in them is like file 1 file to file.
And I do ls and you see there are three files that I just created.
Areikat.
OK I just created three files and when I do it LS I find out that I have some basic information which
was already there and if I do it LS dash E-L which is called The Long listing and I look down here.
There are some files that are starting with the dash and these are file permissions that begin to talk
about later on but the ones that are starting with a D they are directories and also on my screen they
are shown as blue color.
So these are directories.
The one I the ones I just created are files.
So for directories you have to go CD change directory and then suppose if I want to go to desktop and
now my present working great Korea's slide show slash Larry slushed us top with a capital D.
Linux is case sensitive so always make sure that you're using you're supposed to use upper or lower
case because that could make a difference.
If you do all lowercase desktop it will show you an air support let me do it actually.
So currently I win and I'm going to do desktop and says no such file.
And if you are a new Linux user you're going to say no it is not true.
Is there a file is there.
I've just seen it.
But the reason it's not letting you in because there is no such thing as all lowercase desktop in your
directory.
You have to do cd capital D and then the rest of the work.
And nobody likes you and you've got nothing in there right now so it doesn't show any files.
You do a CD dub CD dot.
Sorry Dad got I'll bring you up once step see you're back into your home directory and I have created
3 files.
But no I don't want them.
So I'm going to do file one remove our aim is for remove while to remove want to remove what three and
just do it.
LS No.
All my thoughts I got very moved.
So another important are in for information.
If you want to find out what my host name is currently I don't have the host name assigned to this machine
so I showing local hall got local to me so I haven't assigned a domain yet.
I haven't assigned a host name yet to this machine.
I can also find out what the date is today and this shows the date the date command and I suppose if
I want to change the password for Larry since I'm logged in as Larry that's the only password I can
change right now I cannot change password for other people or for root.
I can only change password for myself.
When you do a PE P S S W D or lowercase l get ill ask you what your current password is suppose I on
purpose enter a wrong password
it give me this error.
This way.
Weird error.
This basically saying you have to run password but this is sent to us way of telling you that you got
the wrong password.
But this is how you change the password.
Piazza's W.D..
And another command is his last lost user who logged on to this machine.
This is the last user since Larry is the only user on it so far so he's the last user as well.
I suppose I want to find out what is my version of operating system running.
So I says Linux.
But that's not good enough.
I want to get more information so I do use the dash dash.
Hello and gives you more options that are available that you can use with your name.
So I want to type in your name
Bash and that gives you a lot more information.
It gives me what the operating system it what the domain name is but the host name is the actual architecture
of my Linux operating system.
The date it won't install or the date it was available are they did was created.
All of that information is available.
So these are some of the commands I wanted you to get a feel for linux right notes.
So this is it.
We get to get into more detail and more complex stuff in upcoming lectures.